Hi and welcome come back in this video we're looking at some sequel joined examples.
Notice that the data that we've got in our sample data base is more complex than the data that we saw
in the lecture video and that's nice because it's going to let us try out a joint with three tables
.
The first thing I wanted to do is to build the query step by step so you guys are confident that you
understand exactly all of the different parts of the sequel the query.
The first query that we've got here is select start from purchases.
Remember our purchases table gives us a purchase ID an item ID and a customer ID.
So the purchase is stable lets us get the item that was bought and the customer who bought that item
the items table
has the item name as well as the price.
And naturally an ID as well on the Customers table Customers table has the first name and the last name
as well as an IP.
So the IDs in all these tables are used to link in here.
In this purchase is table.
That means that if I wanted to get those per those items that have been bought then I could do a join
from items and then I want to join on purchases and find out which items have purchases associated with
those items.
Which type of join should I use for this should be a left join.
Should it be a right to join.
It to be a full join should it be enjoying
the answer as I'm sure you got it is in join.
That's because I want to give those items that have purchases associated with them and I don't want
to get those items that have no purchases associated with them.
So let's go over the difference once again I want to select from items in a joint purchases on items
that ID equals purchases not item underscore ID and one that gives me is the items details and then
links up with the purchase details there.
If instead of in a joint I do a left join.
What do you think is going to happen here.
The answer is that I'm going to get the items that have no purchases associated with them too.
So in this case I get a pin because I went back and deleted a purchase so I could show you this.
If they do a left join I get all the data from items and then I have to it the purchase data.
If there is a purchase date and because the pin has no purchases associated with it it doesn't have
any rows in purchases with an item id of one then that is blank.
If I do an inner join then the pain disappears because there's only data that matches in both tables
.
OK.
Remember also that I'm doing items left join purchases left when purchases and that gives me the item
and then poaches data.
But I could also do purchases right join items and that gives me the same stuff but just the other way
around.
But the performance is identical and there is no real problem there.
So I am.
You can do it either way.
OK now let's find out which customers did purchases.
So I'm going to delete that and I'm going to let you pause the video and give it a go essentially find
out which customers have purchases associated to them and which purchases they've got.
And the answer I'm sure you've got it is.
Select start from customers in a join purchases on customers thought Id equals purchaser's dot customer
underscore ID.
Notice that their own carry caps or not caps it doesn't matter when you do this.
You get those customers that have purchases associated with them.
Once again something you may want to try and will left join instead.
And that's going to get customer data and then put the purchase data on it.
If it matches and this happens quite often it bugs out it thinks there's some sort of error you have
to retype the thing and then it works.
So there we go.
And that gives me the customers that have no purchases as well as those that do
OK next stop let's see how we can get only the item data or rather only the customer data for those
customers that have purchases.
So we've got what we've got here is an in a joint and this gives me the customer data and the purchase
date.
So I'm not really concerned about purchase data.
I just want to know which of my customers have made purchases what I could do here is instead of select
stock I could do select customers dot first name Komer customers dot last name and what that's going
to give me is the first name and last name of the customers that have date the have purchases rather
and then again Rolf's Smith Rocksmith Michael out of Michael Adam Rick Scott Rick Scott Michael Adam
.
Now there's a few things that we could do to sanitize the data or remove duplicates things like that
We're going to be looking at those in the next few videos.
But for now this is what we've got.
Finally I also wanted to show you how you can do a joint using three tables simultaneously because that's
something you're going to encounter quite often.
I'm going to select stock from items now as you know this is going to just give me my items and then
when I'm going to do is in a joint purchases on items that ID equals purchases no item on the ID unit
where this is going to do it's going to give me my items and it's going to give me the purchases.
And for those items.
So it's only going to give me items that have purchases in them.
So the pain is going to disappear and I'm going to get a bunch of duplicates for each of their purchases
.
So the pin has disappeared.
You can see there's no pin in there.
And we've got a fountain pen wise we've got hard drive twice we've put in twice and now each of these
items also have a customer I.D. which is the customer that performed the purchase of this item.
So now the resultant table which is this one here I can join that table with another table.
So what I'll do is in adjoining customers on purchases dot customer ID equals customers ID.
Do remember what I'm doing is I'm joining the customers table with the resultant table.
I am not joining customers with purchases.
I am not joining customers with items.
What I'm doing is I'm performing this joint first and then I'm joining to it the customers table.
So that is why in this join I have access to purchases dot customer ID because that's already been joined
before.
So when I press play when I get the same date as before.
Up to here and then I get my customer data that has been joined onto that which is Ralph Smith rose
Smith and so similarly just as before I could instead of select stock I could select specific columns
if I was only interested in a few things.
And indeed when you do a select like this you're probably only going to be interested in something which
is customers not first name customers don't last name items start name items not price.
Most likely.
That's probably all you're interested in the customer's name and the item name of the item price.
If we run that we can Rocksmith bought a screen for 275 and then he bought a hard drive for 1899 and
showed what we are going to be looking in the next few videos is at how you can get the total spending
.
Author of Smith which would be adding these two together we're going to look at how many orders he did
which we know is too but we're going to ask sequel to give us the count of orders and we are going to
be learning how to do that.
So there's still quite a lot that we can do for us.
It's not limited to just data withdrawal but it can also perform some operations on the data.
And we're going to look at how we can do those things in the next few videos.
So I do apologize for the long video and it was quite a lot to process and joins are essential essential
for relational databases so it's very important that you know the different types and how they work
.
My suggestion going to PD admin and do a bunch of Joines and play around with them until you fully understand
and inherently get what they are about and how they work.
Once you've done that please move on to the next video and I'll be seeing you your